Doc: Updating porting guide (#6425)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: docs/porting-guides/6.x.x.md

| `l3_edge.p2p_links[].underlay_multicast` | `l3_edge.p2p_links.multicast_pim_sm` |
| `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles[].structured_config` | `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles.ethernet_structured_config` or `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles.port_channel_structured_config` |
| `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles[].underlay_multicast` | `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles.multicast_pim_sm` |

> | `local_users` | `aaa_settings.local_users` |

Author: FYI @ClausHolbechArista @gmuloc 

The key `evpn_ebgp_gateway_inter_domain` is removed in 6.0 and even 5.7 it not used anywhere. it just there in schema only.
Here is the schema
```
type: dict
keys:
  evpn_ebgp_gateway_inter_domain:
    documentation_options:
      table: evpn-settings
    type: bool
```

Reviewer: wow that is weird. Please add it to the deprecation list @Shivani-gslab is making for 5.7 and just have `-` in new key and a note with "Removing unused key". And then mark it as removed in 6.0.

Reviewer 2: I have added it to the list with the note suggested here.
Where to mark it as removed in 6.0.? In the description of 5.7 schema or we can add deprecation for this??? @ClausHolbechArista

Reviewer: I digged a bit and this was added in v3.5.0 but never used. You can just remove it without any deprecation. It was more of a doc bug fix than a data model change.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, removed the entry from my PR

In AVD 5.x, conflict detection was done per data model (e.g., `network_services`, `connected_endpoints`, ...).
This implies that it was possible to declare conflicting information between data models (e.g., overwriting an MLAG interface in `connected_endpoints`), which could lead to difficult-to-track errors.

An optional preview setting, `avd_eos_designs_enforce_duplication_checks_across_all_models`, was introduced in later 5.x releases to enable stricter conflict detection across data models.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, conflict detection is always enforced across all data models, and the
`avd_eos_designs_enforce_duplication_checks_across_all_models` option has been removed.

> AVD will now consistently raise errors when the same Structured Config object is defined with conflicting data in multiple input models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AVD will now consistently raise errors when the same Structured Config object is defined with conflicting data across all input models.
```

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Uplink ethernet interfaces
 - l3leaf:
     defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
-        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_ethernet_structured_config:
+        description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces
+        mtu: 9214
+     uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+       description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces
+       mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
 - l3leaf:
      defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
-         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30

> ### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys

Author: ```suggestion

### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys
```

'metadata': {'peer': 'mlag-leaf-2', 'peer_interface': 'Ethernet3', 'peer_type': 'mlag_peer'}}."}
```

### Removing of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink-specific structured config keys

In AVD 5.x, the key `uplink_structured_config` was used to apply custom structured configuration to uplink interfaces.

> Depending on the uplink type, the content could apply to either:

Reviewer 3: We can make this simple:
`uplink_structured_config` is removed. `uplink_ethernet_structured_config` and `uplink_port_channel_structured_config` are new keys for adding structured_configs for uplink port-channels(if present) and uplink interfaces or member interfaces of port-channel respectively.

Author: please add suggestion

- `ethernet_interfaces` when `uplink_type == "p2p"`
- `port_channel_interfaces` when `uplink_type == "port-channel"`
- `uplink_switch_interfaces` on uplink switches

This generic approach required relaxed schema validation and made it unclear which interface type the configuration applied to.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation.

The following new keys are introduced:

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Point-to-point uplinks (`uplink_type: p2p`)
- <node_type_key>.defaults.uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Uplink to spine
-   mtu: 9214

> + <node_type_key>.defaults.uplink_ethernet_structured_config:

Reviewer 3: We need `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config` too here to retain the previous configs.

+   description: Uplink to spine
+   mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
- <node_type_key>.nodes[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Uplink Port-Channel
-   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+ <node_type_key>.nodes[].uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Uplink Port-Channel
+   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on uplink switches
- <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Downlink to leaf
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Downlink to leaf

> +   mtu: 9214

Author: ```suggestion
# Example: Ethernet interfaces uplinks on uplink switches
- <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Downlink to leaf
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.node_groups[]. uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+   description: Downlink to leaf
+   mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on uplink switches
- <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Downlink to leaf
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Downlink to leaf
+   mtu: 9214
```

'metadata': {'peer': 'mlag-leaf-2', 'peer_interface': 'Ethernet3', 'peer_type': 'mlag_peer'}}."}
```

> ### Removing of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink-specific structured config keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Removal of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink-specific structured config keys
```

- `uplink_switch_interfaces` on uplink switches

This generic approach required relaxed schema validation and made it unclear which interface type the configuration applied to.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation.

The following new keys are introduced:

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Point-to-point uplinks (`uplink_type: p2p`)
- <node_type_key>.defaults.uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Uplink to spine
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.defaults.uplink_ethernet_structured_config:
+   description: Uplink to spine
+   mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
- <node_type_key>.nodes[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Uplink Port-Channel
-   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+ <node_type_key>.nodes[].uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Uplink Port-Channel

> +   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+ <node_type_key>.nodes[].uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Uplink Port-Channel
+   lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
```

# Example: Ethernet interfaces uplinks on uplink switches
- <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Downlink to leaf
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.node_groups[]. uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+   description: Downlink to leaf
+   mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on uplink switches
- <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_structured_config:
-   description: Downlink to leaf
-   mtu: 9214
+ <node_type_key>.node_groups[].uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+   description: Downlink to leaf
+   mtu: 9214
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Removal of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink type-specific structured config keys

In AVD 5.x, the key `uplink_structured_config` was used to apply custom structured configuration to uplink interfaces and their respective peer interfaces. This configuration was added to both port-channels and ethernet interfaces; this generic approach required relaxed schema validation.

Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface type-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation. With this change it is now possible to apply structured config to uplinks and its peer interfaces with individually.

The following new keys are introduced:

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Uplink ethernet interfaces
 - l3leaf:
      defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
-        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_ethernet_structured_config:
+        description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces
+        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+        description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces
+        mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
 - l3leaf:
      defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
-         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
```

> ### Removing of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys
```

'metadata': {'peer': 'mlag-leaf-2', 'peer_interface': 'Ethernet3', 'peer_type': 'mlag_peer'}}."}
```

### Removal of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink type-specific structured config keys

In AVD 5.x, the key `uplink_structured_config` was used to apply custom structured configuration to uplink interfaces and their respective peer interfaces. This configuration was added to both port-channels and ethernet interfaces; this generic approach required relaxed schema validation.

> Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface type-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation. With this change it is now possible to apply structured config to uplinks and its peer interfaces with individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface type-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation. With this change it is now possible to apply structured config to uplinks and it's peer's interfaces individually.
```

The following new keys are introduced:

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Uplink ethernet interfaces
 - l3leaf:
     defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
-        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_ethernet_structured_config:

> +        description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
```

+        mtu: 9214

> +     uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:

Reviewer: indentation looks wrong here

Author: fixed

> +       description: Structured_config  on ethernet interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+       description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
```

+       mtu: 9214

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
 - l3leaf:
      defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
-         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+     uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+       description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces

> +       lacp_fallback_timeout: 30

Reviewer: indentation

Author: fixed

> ### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys for `l3_edge` and `core_interfaces`
```

'metadata': {'peer': 'mlag-leaf-2', 'peer_interface': 'Ethernet3', 'peer_type': 'mlag_peer'}}."}
```

### Removal of `uplink_structured_config` and introduction of uplink type-specific structured config keys

In AVD 5.x, the key `uplink_structured_config` was used to apply custom structured configuration to uplink interfaces and their respective peer interfaces. This configuration was added to both port-channels and ethernet interfaces; this generic approach required relaxed schema validation.

> Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface type-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation. With this change it is now possible to apply structured config to uplinks and it's peer's interfaces individually.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Starting with AVD 6.0.0, `uplink_structured_config` has been removed and replaced by explicit, interface type-specific keys to improve clarity and schema validation. With this change it is now possible to apply structured config to a device uplinks and the corresponding peer interfaces individually.
```

The following new keys are introduced:

- `uplink_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_port_channel_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config`
- `uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config`

To retain the previous behavior, the following change is required:

```diff
# Example: Uplink ethernet interfaces
 - l3leaf:
     defaults:
-      uplink_structured_config:
-        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
-        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_ethernet_structured_config:
+        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
+        mtu: 9214
+      uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+        description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces

> +        mtu: 9214

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
l3leaf:
  defaults:
-   uplink_structured_config:
-     description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
-     mtu: 9214
+   uplink_ethernet_structured_config:
+     description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
+     mtu: 9214
+   uplink_switch_ethernet_structured_config:
+     description: Structured_config on ethernet interfaces
+     mtu: 9214
```

Reviewer 2: l3leaf is a dict

# Example: Port-Channel uplinks on the node
 - l3leaf:
      defaults:
-       uplink_structured_config:
-         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
-         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+       uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+       uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+         description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces

> +         lacp_fallback_timeout: 30

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
l3leaf:
  defaults:
-   uplink_structured_config:
-     description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
-     lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+   uplink_port_channel_structured_config:
+     description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+     lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
+   uplink_switch_port_channel_structured_config:
+     description: structured_config on port-channel interfaces
+     lacp_fallback_timeout: 30
```

```

### Removal of `structured_config` and introduction of interface-specific structured config keys for `l3_edge` and `core_interfaces`

In AVD 5.x, `structured_config` was used for P2P links and could apply to either `ethernet_interfaces` or `port_channel_interfaces`.

In AVD 6.0.0, it has been removed and replaced with:

- `ethernet_structured_config`
- `port_channel_structured_config`

Affected paths:

- `core_interfaces.p2p_links_profiles.[].structured_config`
- `core_interfaces.p2p_links.[].structured_config`
- `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles.[].structured_config`

> - `l3_edge.p2p_links.[].structured_config`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- `core_interfaces.p2p_links_profiles[].structured_config`
- `core_interfaces.p2p_links[].structured_config`
- `l3_edge.p2p_links_profiles[].structured_config`
- `l3_edge.p2p_links[].structured_config`
```

Reviewer 2: This is at multiple places like for node_types etc. I have addressed it in my PR for those entries

!!! tip
    To avoid editing every single `p2p_links`, it is possible to leverage `p2p_links_profiles`.

> ### Change of SNMP `snmp_settings.enable_inband_mgmt_vrf` and `snmp_settings.enable_mgmt_interface_vrf` to `snmp_settingsvrfs[]`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Change in SNMP data model from `snmp_settings.enable_inband_mgmt_vrf` and `snmp_settings.enable_mgmt_interface_vrf` to `snmp_settings.vrfs[]`
```
